_docs/implementation-guide.md, before:

---
layout: docs
title: "Implementation Guide"
description: "Comprehensive guide to implementing XARF in your systems for abuse reporting and handling"
permalink: /docs/implementation-guide/
---

# Implementation Guide

This guide walks you through implementing XARF (eXtended Abuse Reporting Format) in your applications, from basic report generation to advanced integration patterns.

---

## Quick Start

### 1. Choose Your Language

XARF provides libraries for multiple programming languages:

- **[Python](/libraries/python/)** - Full-featured library with validation and schema support
- **JavaScript/Node.js** (Coming Soon) - Browser and Node.js compatible
- **Go** (Coming Soon) - High-performance implementation
- **Java** (Coming Soon) - Enterprise-grade library
- **C#/.NET** (Coming Soon) - Windows and cross-platform support

### 2. Install the Library

<details class="code-example" markdown="1">
<summary>Python</summary>

```bash
pip install xarf
```
</details>

<details class="code-example" markdown="1">
<summary>JavaScript/Node.js</summary>

```bash
npm install xarf
```
</details>

<details class="code-example" markdown="1">
<summary>Go</summary>

```bash
go get github.com/xarf/xarf-go
```
</details>

### 3. Create Your First Report

<details class="code-example" markdown="1">
<summary>Python Example</summary>

```python
from xarf import XARFReport
from datetime import datetime

# Create a new XARF report
report = XARFReport(
    xarf_version="4.0.0",
    report_id="550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000",
    timestamp=datetime.utcnow().isoformat() + "Z",
    reporter={
        "org": "Security Operations",
        "contact": "abuse@example.com",
        "type": "automated"
    },
    source_identifier="192.0.2.100",
    category="connection",
    abuse_type="ddos"
)

# Validate the report
if report.validate():
    print("✓ Report is valid!")

    # Export to JSON
    json_output = report.to_json(indent=2)
    print(json_output)
else:
    print("✗ Validation errors:")
    for error in report.validation_errors:
        print(f"  - {error}")
```
</details>

<details class="code-example" markdown="1">
<summary>JavaScript Example</summary>

```javascript
const { XARFReport } = require('xarf');

// Create a new XARF report
const report = new XARFReport({
  xarf_version: '4.0.0',
  report_id: '550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000',
  timestamp: new Date().toISOString(),
  reporter: {
    org: 'Security Operations',
    contact: 'abuse@example.com',
    type: 'automated'
  },
  source_identifier: '192.0.2.100',
  category: 'connection',
  abuse_type: 'ddos'
});

// Validate and export
if (report.validate()) {
  console.log('✓ Report is valid!');
  console.log(report.toJSON(null, 2));
} else {
  console.log('✗ Validation errors:');
  report.validationErrors.forEach(error => console.log(`  - ${error}`));
}
```
</details>

---

## Validation

### Schema Validation

All XARF reports must conform to the JSON Schema for their specific type. The library handles validation automatically:

```python
from xarf import XARFReport, ValidationError

try:
    report = XARFReport.from_json(json_string)
    report.validate(strict=True)  # Raises ValidationError if invalid
except ValidationError as e:
    print(f"Validation failed: {e.message}")
    for error in e.errors:
        print(f"  {error.path}: {error.message}")
```

### Field Requirements

Each XARF type has different field requirements. Use the emoji indicators to identify:

- 🟠 **Mandatory** - MUST be present in all valid reports
- 🟢 **Recommended** - SHOULD be included when information is available
- 🔵 **Optional** - MAY be included for additional context

See [Sample Reports](/docs/types/) for complete field reference for each type.

### Online Validator

Use our [Schema Validator](/tools/validator/) to validate reports in your browser without installing anything.

---

## Integration Patterns

### 1. Automated Abuse Detection

**Use Case**: Your system detects malicious activity and automatically generates XARF reports.

```python
class AbuseDetector:
    def __init__(self, xarf_reporter):
        self.xarf_reporter = xarf_reporter

    def on_ddos_detected(self, attack_data):
        """Called when DDoS attack is detected"""
        report = self.xarf_reporter.create_report(
            category="connection",
            abuse_type="ddos",
            source_identifier=attack_data['source_ip'],
            source_port=attack_data['source_port'],
            protocol=attack_data['protocol'],
            evidence=self._collect_evidence(attack_data),
            tags=[
                f"protocol:{attack_data['protocol']}",
                f"volume:{attack_data['gbps']}gbps"
            ]
        )

        # Send to abuse contact
        self.send_report(report, attack_data['source_asn'])
```

### 2. Receiving and Processing Reports

**Use Case**: Your abuse handling system receives XARF reports from external sources.

```python
from xarf import XARFReport

def process_abuse_report(json_data):
    """Process incoming XARF report"""
    try:
        # Parse and validate
        report = XARFReport.from_json(json_data)
        report.validate()

        # Route based on category and type
        if report.category == "connection" and report.abuse_type == "ddos":
            handle_ddos_report(report)
        elif report.category == "vulnerability":
            handle_vulnerability_report(report)

        # Log receipt
        log_report_received(report.report_id, report.reporter.org)

    except ValidationError as e:
        log_invalid_report(json_data, str(e))
```

### 3. Batch Processing

**Use Case**: Process multiple reports efficiently.

```python
from xarf import XARFBatch

def process_daily_reports(report_files):
    """Process all reports from the past 24 hours"""
    batch = XARFBatch()

    # Load all reports
    for file_path in report_files:
        with open(file_path, 'r') as f:
            batch.add_report(f.read())

    # Validate all at once
    results = batch.validate_all()

    # Process valid reports
    for report in results.valid:
        take_action(report)

    # Log invalid reports
    for error in results.invalid:
        log_validation_failure(error.report_id, error.errors)
```

### 4. Format Conversion

**Use Case**: Convert between XARF and other abuse reporting formats.

```python
from xarf.converters import ARFConverter, IODefConverter

# Convert from ARF to XARF
arf_data = load_arf_report('report.xml')
xarf_report = ARFConverter.to_xarf(arf_data)

# Convert XARF to IODEF
iodef_xml = IODefConverter.from_xarf(xarf_report)
```

---

## Error Handling

### Common Errors

#### Missing Mandatory Fields

```json
{
  "error": "ValidationError",
  "message": "Missing required field: 'reporter'",
  "path": "$",
  "expected": "object with 'org', 'contact', 'type'"
}
```

**Solution**: Ensure all mandatory fields (🟠) are present.

#### Invalid Field Format

```json
{
  "error": "ValidationError",
  "message": "Invalid timestamp format",
  "path": "$.timestamp",
  "expected": "ISO 8601 format (YYYY-MM-DDTHH:mm:ssZ)"
}
```

**Solution**: Use proper ISO 8601 format for timestamps.

#### Unknown Classification or Type

```json
{
  "error": "ValidationError",
  "message": "Unknown type 'unknown_type' for category 'connection'",
  "path": "$.type",
  "expected": "One of: ddos, port-scan, login-attack, brute-force, etc."
}
```

**Solution**: Use only valid types for each category. See [Content Types](/docs/types/).

### Best Practices

1. **Always validate before sending** - Use `report.validate()` to catch errors early
2. **Log validation failures** - Keep track of invalid reports for debugging
3. **Graceful degradation** - Handle missing recommended (🟢) fields gracefully
4. **Version compatibility** - Check `xarf_version` field when parsing reports

---

## Security & Privacy

### Handling Sensitive Data

XARF reports may contain sensitive information. Follow these guidelines:

#### 1. Evidence Protection

```python
from xarf.security import SecureEvidence

# Encrypt evidence before storage
evidence = SecureEvidence.encrypt(
    content=raw_evidence,
    encryption_key=get_encryption_key(),
    algorithm="AES-256-GCM"
)

report.add_evidence(
    content_type="application/octet-stream",
    description="Encrypted packet capture",
    payload=evidence.to_base64()
)
```

#### 2. PII Redaction

```python
from xarf.privacy import PIIRedactor

# Automatically redact PII from evidence
redactor = PIIRedactor()
clean_evidence = redactor.redact(evidence_text)

# Redaction preserves structure but removes:
# - Email addresses
# - Phone numbers
# - Credit card numbers
# - Personal identifiers
```

#### 3. Access Control

```python
from xarf.security import AccessControl

# Define who can access reports
acl = AccessControl()
acl.set_reader("security-team@example.com")
acl.set_reader("abuse@isp.example.com")

# Embed access control in report
report.metadata['access_control'] = acl.to_dict()
```

### Transport Security

Always use TLS/HTTPS when transmitting XARF reports:

```python
import requests

response = requests.post(
    'https://abuse.example.com/xarf',
    json=report.to_dict(),
    headers={'Content-Type': 'application/json'},
    verify=True  # Always verify SSL certificates
)
```

---

## Testing

### Unit Tests

```python
import unittest
from xarf import XARFReport

class TestXARFReports(unittest.TestCase):

    def test_valid_ddos_report(self):
        """Test creating a valid DDoS report"""
        report = XARFReport(
            xarf_version="4.0.0",
            report_id="test-001",
            timestamp="2024-01-15T10:00:00Z",
            reporter={
                "org": "Test Security",
                "contact": "test@example.com",
                "type": "automated"
            },
            source_identifier="192.0.2.100",
            category="connection",
            abuse_type="ddos"
        )

        self.assertTrue(report.validate())

    def test_missing_mandatory_field(self):
        """Test that missing mandatory field raises error"""
        with self.assertRaises(ValidationError):
            report = XARFReport(
                xarf_version="4.0.0",
                # Missing report_id
                timestamp="2024-01-15T10:00:00Z",
                reporter={"org": "Test", "contact": "test@example.com", "type": "automated"},
                source_identifier="192.0.2.100",
                category="connection",
                abuse_type="ddos"
            )
            report.validate(strict=True)
```

### Integration Tests

```python
def test_end_to_end_workflow():
    """Test complete report generation and submission"""
    # 1. Detect abuse
    attack_data = detect_attack()

    # 2. Generate report
    report = generate_xarf_report(attack_data)

    # 3. Validate
    assert report.validate()

    # 4. Submit
    response = submit_report(report)
    assert response.status_code == 200

    # 5. Verify acknowledgment
    ack = parse_acknowledgment(response.json())
    assert ack.report_id == report.report_id
```

### Test Data

Use our [Sample Generator](/tools/generator/) to create test reports for different scenarios.

---

## Production Checklist

Before deploying XARF in production:

### Infrastructure

- [ ] **TLS/HTTPS configured** for all report transmission
- [ ] **Authentication** implemented for report endpoints
- [ ] **Rate limiting** configured to prevent abuse
- [ ] **Monitoring** set up for report volume and errors
- [ ] **Logging** configured for audit trail
- [ ] **Backup** system for reports and evidence

### Security

- [ ] **Encryption** enabled for sensitive evidence
- [ ] **PII redaction** implemented where required
- [ ] **Access control** policies defined
- [ ] **Data retention** policy configured
- [ ] **Security review** completed
- [ ] **Penetration testing** performed

### Compliance

- [ ] **GDPR compliance** verified (if applicable)
- [ ] **Data protection** regulations reviewed
- [ ] **Legal review** completed
- [ ] **Privacy policy** updated
- [ ] **Terms of service** include XARF handling

### Operational

- [ ] **Documentation** completed for operations team
- [ ] **Runbooks** created for common scenarios
- [ ] **On-call procedures** defined
- [ ] **Escalation paths** documented
- [ ] **Performance testing** completed
- [ ] **Disaster recovery** plan in place

### Validation

- [ ] **Schema validation** enabled in production
- [ ] **Error handling** tested thoroughly
- [ ] **Logging** captures all validation failures
- [ ] **Monitoring** alerts on validation errors
- [ ] **Fallback procedures** defined

---

## Next Steps

- **[Sample Reports](/docs/types/)** - Explore all event types with examples
- **[Schema Reference](/docs/schemas/)** - Detailed schema documentation
- **[Best Practices](/docs/best-practices/)** - Advanced tips and patterns
- **[Python Library](/libraries/python/)** - Full API documentation
- **[Tools](/tools/)** - Validators, generators, and converters

---

## Need Help?

- **[GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/xarf/xarf-spec/discussions)** - Ask questions and share experiences
- **[GitHub Issues](https://github.com/xarf/xarf-spec/issues)** - Report bugs or request features
- **[Contributing](/community/contributing/)** - Help improve XARF

---

**Ready to implement?** Start with our [Python Library](/libraries/python/) or explore [Sample Reports](/docs/types/) for your specific use case.

Commit message:

chore: Remove unused tools (generator, hash calculator, converter) from website
- Removed generator and hash-calculator tool files
- Removed tools from navigation in _config.yml
- Removed tool references from validator and implementation guide
- Kept only Schema Validator tool which is functional
- Cleaned up tools.md to show only validator

_docs/implementation-guide.md, after:

---
layout: docs
title: "Implementation Guide"
description: "Comprehensive guide to implementing XARF in your systems for abuse reporting and handling"
permalink: /docs/implementation-guide/
---

# Implementation Guide

This guide walks you through implementing XARF (eXtended Abuse Reporting Format) in your applications, from basic report generation to advanced integration patterns.

---

## Quick Start

### 1. Choose Your Language

XARF provides libraries for multiple programming languages:

- **[Python](/libraries/python/)** - Full-featured library with validation and schema support
- **JavaScript/Node.js** (Coming Soon) - Browser and Node.js compatible
- **Go** (Coming Soon) - High-performance implementation
- **Java** (Coming Soon) - Enterprise-grade library
- **C#/.NET** (Coming Soon) - Windows and cross-platform support

### 2. Install the Library

<details class="code-example" markdown="1">
<summary>Python</summary>

```bash
pip install xarf
```
</details>

<details class="code-example" markdown="1">
<summary>JavaScript/Node.js</summary>

```bash
npm install xarf
```
</details>

<details class="code-example" markdown="1">
<summary>Go</summary>

```bash
go get github.com/xarf/xarf-go
```
</details>

### 3. Create Your First Report

<details class="code-example" markdown="1">
<summary>Python Example</summary>

```python
from xarf import XARFReport
from datetime import datetime

# Create a new XARF report
report = XARFReport(
    xarf_version="4.0.0",
    report_id="550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000",
    timestamp=datetime.utcnow().isoformat() + "Z",
    reporter={
        "org": "Security Operations",
        "contact": "abuse@example.com",
        "type": "automated"
    },
    source_identifier="192.0.2.100",
    category="connection",
    abuse_type="ddos"
)

# Validate the report
if report.validate():
    print("✓ Report is valid!")

    # Export to JSON
    json_output = report.to_json(indent=2)
    print(json_output)
else:
    print("✗ Validation errors:")
    for error in report.validation_errors:
        print(f"  - {error}")
```
</details>

<details class="code-example" markdown="1">
<summary>JavaScript Example</summary>

```javascript
const { XARFReport } = require('xarf');

// Create a new XARF report
const report = new XARFReport({
  xarf_version: '4.0.0',
  report_id: '550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000',
  timestamp: new Date().toISOString(),
  reporter: {
    org: 'Security Operations',
    contact: 'abuse@example.com',
    type: 'automated'
  },
  source_identifier: '192.0.2.100',
  category: 'connection',
  abuse_type: 'ddos'
});

// Validate and export
if (report.validate()) {
  console.log('✓ Report is valid!');
  console.log(report.toJSON(null, 2));
} else {
  console.log('✗ Validation errors:');
  report.validationErrors.forEach(error => console.log(`  - ${error}`));
}
```
</details>

---

## Validation

### Schema Validation

All XARF reports must conform to the JSON Schema for their specific type. The library handles validation automatically:

```python
from xarf import XARFReport, ValidationError

try:
    report = XARFReport.from_json(json_string)
    report.validate(strict=True)  # Raises ValidationError if invalid
except ValidationError as e:
    print(f"Validation failed: {e.message}")
    for error in e.errors:
        print(f"  {error.path}: {error.message}")
```

### Field Requirements

Each XARF type has different field requirements. Use the emoji indicators to identify:

- 🟠 **Mandatory** - MUST be present in all valid reports
- 🟢 **Recommended** - SHOULD be included when information is available
- 🔵 **Optional** - MAY be included for additional context

See [Sample Reports](/docs/types/) for complete field reference for each type.

### Online Validator

Use our [Schema Validator](/tools/validator/) to validate reports in your browser without installing anything.

---

## Integration Patterns

### 1. Automated Abuse Detection

**Use Case**: Your system detects malicious activity and automatically generates XARF reports.

```python
class AbuseDetector:
    def __init__(self, xarf_reporter):
        self.xarf_reporter = xarf_reporter

    def on_ddos_detected(self, attack_data):
        """Called when DDoS attack is detected"""
        report = self.xarf_reporter.create_report(
            category="connection",
            abuse_type="ddos",
            source_identifier=attack_data['source_ip'],
            source_port=attack_data['source_port'],
            protocol=attack_data['protocol'],
            evidence=self._collect_evidence(attack_data),
            tags=[
                f"protocol:{attack_data['protocol']}",
                f"volume:{attack_data['gbps']}gbps"
            ]
        )

        # Send to abuse contact
        self.send_report(report, attack_data['source_asn'])
```

### 2. Receiving and Processing Reports

**Use Case**: Your abuse handling system receives XARF reports from external sources.

```python
from xarf import XARFReport

def process_abuse_report(json_data):
    """Process incoming XARF report"""
    try:
        # Parse and validate
        report = XARFReport.from_json(json_data)
        report.validate()

        # Route based on category and type
        if report.category == "connection" and report.abuse_type == "ddos":
            handle_ddos_report(report)
        elif report.category == "vulnerability":
            handle_vulnerability_report(report)

        # Log receipt
        log_report_received(report.report_id, report.reporter.org)

    except ValidationError as e:
        log_invalid_report(json_data, str(e))
```

### 3. Batch Processing

**Use Case**: Process multiple reports efficiently.

```python
from xarf import XARFBatch

def process_daily_reports(report_files):
    """Process all reports from the past 24 hours"""
    batch = XARFBatch()

    # Load all reports
    for file_path in report_files:
        with open(file_path, 'r') as f:
            batch.add_report(f.read())

    # Validate all at once
    results = batch.validate_all()

    # Process valid reports
    for report in results.valid:
        take_action(report)

    # Log invalid reports
    for error in results.invalid:
        log_validation_failure(error.report_id, error.errors)
```

### 4. Format Conversion

**Use Case**: Convert between XARF and other abuse reporting formats.

```python
from xarf.converters import ARFConverter, IODefConverter

# Convert from ARF to XARF
arf_data = load_arf_report('report.xml')
xarf_report = ARFConverter.to_xarf(arf_data)

# Convert XARF to IODEF
iodef_xml = IODefConverter.from_xarf(xarf_report)
```

---

## Error Handling

### Common Errors

#### Missing Mandatory Fields

```json
{
  "error": "ValidationError",
  "message": "Missing required field: 'reporter'",
  "path": "$",
  "expected": "object with 'org', 'contact', 'type'"
}
```

**Solution**: Ensure all mandatory fields (🟠) are present.

#### Invalid Field Format

```json
{
  "error": "ValidationError",
  "message": "Invalid timestamp format",
  "path": "$.timestamp",
  "expected": "ISO 8601 format (YYYY-MM-DDTHH:mm:ssZ)"
}
```

**Solution**: Use proper ISO 8601 format for timestamps.

#### Unknown Classification or Type

```json
{
  "error": "ValidationError",
  "message": "Unknown type 'unknown_type' for category 'connection'",
  "path": "$.type",
  "expected": "One of: ddos, port-scan, login-attack, brute-force, etc."
}
```

**Solution**: Use only valid types for each category. See [Content Types](/docs/types/).

### Best Practices

1. **Always validate before sending** - Use `report.validate()` to catch errors early
2. **Log validation failures** - Keep track of invalid reports for debugging
3. **Graceful degradation** - Handle missing recommended (🟢) fields gracefully
4. **Version compatibility** - Check `xarf_version` field when parsing reports

---

## Security & Privacy

### Handling Sensitive Data

XARF reports may contain sensitive information. Follow these guidelines:

#### 1. Evidence Protection

```python
from xarf.security import SecureEvidence

# Encrypt evidence before storage
evidence = SecureEvidence.encrypt(
    content=raw_evidence,
    encryption_key=get_encryption_key(),
    algorithm="AES-256-GCM"
)

report.add_evidence(
    content_type="application/octet-stream",
    description="Encrypted packet capture",
    payload=evidence.to_base64()
)
```

#### 2. PII Redaction

```python
from xarf.privacy import PIIRedactor

# Automatically redact PII from evidence
redactor = PIIRedactor()
clean_evidence = redactor.redact(evidence_text)

# Redaction preserves structure but removes:
# - Email addresses
# - Phone numbers
# - Credit card numbers
# - Personal identifiers
```

#### 3. Access Control

```python
from xarf.security import AccessControl

# Define who can access reports
acl = AccessControl()
acl.set_reader("security-team@example.com")
acl.set_reader("abuse@isp.example.com")

# Embed access control in report
report.metadata['access_control'] = acl.to_dict()
```

### Transport Security

Always use TLS/HTTPS when transmitting XARF reports:

```python
import requests

response = requests.post(
    'https://abuse.example.com/xarf',
    json=report.to_dict(),
    headers={'Content-Type': 'application/json'},
    verify=True  # Always verify SSL certificates
)
```

---

## Testing

### Unit Tests

```python
import unittest
from xarf import XARFReport

class TestXARFReports(unittest.TestCase):

    def test_valid_ddos_report(self):
        """Test creating a valid DDoS report"""
        report = XARFReport(
            xarf_version="4.0.0",
            report_id="test-001",
            timestamp="2024-01-15T10:00:00Z",
            reporter={
                "org": "Test Security",
                "contact": "test@example.com",
                "type": "automated"
            },
            source_identifier="192.0.2.100",
            category="connection",
            abuse_type="ddos"
        )

        self.assertTrue(report.validate())

    def test_missing_mandatory_field(self):
        """Test that missing mandatory field raises error"""
        with self.assertRaises(ValidationError):
            report = XARFReport(
                xarf_version="4.0.0",
                # Missing report_id
                timestamp="2024-01-15T10:00:00Z",
                reporter={"org": "Test", "contact": "test@example.com", "type": "automated"},
                source_identifier="192.0.2.100",
                category="connection",
                abuse_type="ddos"
            )
            report.validate(strict=True)
```

### Integration Tests

```python
def test_end_to_end_workflow():
    """Test complete report generation and submission"""
    # 1. Detect abuse
    attack_data = detect_attack()

    # 2. Generate report
    report = generate_xarf_report(attack_data)

    # 3. Validate
    assert report.validate()

    # 4. Submit
    response = submit_report(report)
    assert response.status_code == 200

    # 5. Verify acknowledgment
    ack = parse_acknowledgment(response.json())
    assert ack.report_id == report.report_id
```

### Test Data

Create test reports using the sample files in the specification or use the libraries to generate valid XARF reports programmatically.

---

## Production Checklist

Before deploying XARF in production:

### Infrastructure

- [ ] **TLS/HTTPS configured** for all report transmission
- [ ] **Authentication** implemented for report endpoints
- [ ] **Rate limiting** configured to prevent abuse
- [ ] **Monitoring** set up for report volume and errors
- [ ] **Logging** configured for audit trail
- [ ] **Backup** system for reports and evidence

### Security

- [ ] **Encryption** enabled for sensitive evidence
- [ ] **PII redaction** implemented where required
- [ ] **Access control** policies defined
- [ ] **Data retention** policy configured
- [ ] **Security review** completed
- [ ] **Penetration testing** performed

### Compliance

- [ ] **GDPR compliance** verified (if applicable)
- [ ] **Data protection** regulations reviewed
- [ ] **Legal review** completed
- [ ] **Privacy policy** updated
- [ ] **Terms of service** include XARF handling

### Operational

- [ ] **Documentation** completed for operations team
- [ ] **Runbooks** created for common scenarios
- [ ] **On-call procedures** defined
- [ ] **Escalation paths** documented
- [ ] **Performance testing** completed
- [ ] **Disaster recovery** plan in place

### Validation

- [ ] **Schema validation** enabled in production
- [ ] **Error handling** tested thoroughly
- [ ] **Logging** captures all validation failures
- [ ] **Monitoring** alerts on validation errors
- [ ] **Fallback procedures** defined

---

## Next Steps

- **[Sample Reports](/docs/types/)** - Explore all event types with examples
- **[Schema Reference](/docs/schemas/)** - Detailed schema documentation
- **[Best Practices](/docs/best-practices/)** - Advanced tips and patterns
- **[Python Library](/libraries/python/)** - Full API documentation
- **[Tools](/tools/)** - Validators, generators, and converters

---

## Need Help?

- **[GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/xarf/xarf-spec/discussions)** - Ask questions and share experiences
- **[GitHub Issues](https://github.com/xarf/xarf-spec/issues)** - Report bugs or request features
- **[Contributing](/community/contributing/)** - Help improve XARF

---

**Ready to implement?** Start with our [Python Library](/libraries/python/) or explore [Sample Reports](/docs/types/) for your specific use case.
